Models represent knowledge
of how the world works.
We've talked about
two types of models;
sample models and
distribution models.
In this video, we'll focus on
a concrete example to illustrate
the key differences between
sample models and
distribution models.
By the end of this video,
you will be able to
describe the advantages and
disadvantages of sample models
and distribution models,
and you will also
be able to explain
why sample models can be
represented more compactly
than distribution models.
Let's consider the problem
of rolling 12 dice.
This can be done easily with
a single die and enough patients.
Rolling a single die 12 times
is an example of a sample model.
Programatically,
one would generate
a random number
from 1-6, 12 times.
This is very compact and does
not consider joint probabilities.
Modelling the complete
joint distribution of
rolling 12 dice is
much more work.
We must consider
every possible outcome of
12 dice and assign
a probability to each outcome.
With one die, we have six
outcomes with two dice,
we have 36 outcomes,
three has 216, four has 1,296,
and by the time we
get to 12 dice,
we have over 2 billion possible
outcomes to consider.
But it can be useful that
a distribution model produces
the exact probability
of an outcome.
For example, we can compute
the expected outcome
directly or quantify
the variability in outcomes.
Let's summarize the benefits
of each type of model.
Sample models
require less memory.
Distribution models on
the other hand can
be used to compute
the exact expected
outcome by summing
over all outcomes weighted
by their probabilities.
Note that sample models
can only approximate
this expected outcome by
averaging many samples together,
knowing the exact
probabilities also has
the flexibility of
assessing risk.
For example, when a doctor
is prescribing medicine,
they would consider
many possible side effects
and how likely they are to occur.
In this video, we described
how sample models
can be more compact than
distribution models,
and how the explicit
probabilities and
distribution models can be
useful in some situations,
such as for computing
expectations.